[Music]
In the early '9s, way back before I got
married and had kids or pulled my head
out of my butt and generally got my life
together, I had this girlfriend. I was
madly in love with her, though, and I
thought she was perfect and believed
that we'd spend the rest of our lives
together.
Then one day, I found her in bed with a
coworker after coming home from work
early.
And so, I grabbed a bag, packed
everything I couldn't afford to lose,
and then walked her out.
About an hour later, I'm pulling into a
motel about 15 mi out of town. It wasn't
the first one I saw, but it was the
first that seemed like I wouldn't wake
up to find my car stolen. So, I pulled
in, looked a room for a week, and then
asked the clerk where the nearest liquor
store was. I got blasted that first
night and then woke up so hung over that
I poured the rest of that second bottle
of vodka down the bathroom sink.
It was clear alcohol wasn't going to fix
anything. And so after loading up on
beef and cheese at a nearby burger
place, I headed back to my motel room
and went to sleep. Maybe 3 hours later,
I woke up at around 9:30 at night and
then dragged myself into the shower to
rinse away the cobwebs. I figured that I
was in for a chill evening of TV and
maybe a pizza delivery if the clerk on
the front desk knew of one that had
drive out that far. But I walked back
into the bedroom to the sound of someone
yelling in the parking lot outside.
I peeked out of the curtains after I
towed off and threw on some clothes and
saw a woman standing at the far end of
the parking lot having some kind of
public freak out. She was yelling at the
clerk from the front desk, but from that
distance and being behind the window, I
couldn't make out what she was saying. I
guess seeing someone else having a hard
time made me feel a little bit better
about my own. At least that's what I
blame for the curiosity getting the
better of me. And then within a few
seconds of seeing her, I was outside on
the walkway smoking a cigarette and
pretending not to watch the drama
unfold.
But the second I heard what she was
talking about, I didn't find it nearly
as entertaining as I thought I would. I
guess that probably makes me sound like
some kind of a-hole, but who doesn't
enjoy a harmless little confrontation
between two pissed-off strangers?
The woman looked like she was in her
late 20s or early 30s. black hair, tan,
wearing jeans, sneakers, and a white
t-shirt. And in between yelling for the
clerk to shut up and listen to her, she
kept saying crazy stuff like, "We need
to get everyone out, and they're all
going to die."
I remember thinking, "Wait, what?" and
taking a few steps towards the parking
lot so I could hear what they were
saying better. The clerk was trying to
calm her down, saying that he'd call the
cops, but the woman didn't want to hear
it. She kept telling the guy, "The cops
won't be able to do crap. They'd end up
dead, too. You need to get everyone out
of here right now."
I wasn't the only person to overhear all
of this. And as the yelling continued,
more and more people started coming out
of their rooms to see what all the
commotion was for. A few kids came out
with their parents, but quickly got
ushered back inside when they heard the
lady screaming about her imminent mass
murder.
It was so convincing that I was like,
"Is this girl having a mental breakdown
here in the parking lot of a motel, or
is this legit? Like, are people really
coming to kill us? It seems like a hell
of a thing to take a gamble on, I
thought." And people in the second floor
were obviously thinking the same thing
because while some people were going
back into their rooms looking very
worried, one guy came out again with his
car keys in hand, obviously getting
ready to book it should anything
actually go down.
The woman screaming sure as hell sounded
like she believed what she was saying.
She was scared and that fear was
infectious.
People were starting to get anxious.
Kids were crying and all the while she's
getting more and more agitated while
yelling at the crowd of onlookers
saying, "Don't you get it? We can't stay
here."
Hell, I felt it myself. That creeping
thought of, "Well, damn. What if she's
right?"
Other people were obviously thinking the
same thing, and not just the guy who
grabbed his car keys, either.
People were yelling, "Just call the
cops, man."
things like that. But you could tell it
wasn't so much that this woman was
freaking out. It was because they were
actually scared of the stuff she was
saying.
The clerk turned to the crowd on the
second floor balcony, which is where the
yell of call the cops had come from. He
started saying something back about how
the situation is under control. And then
I think he was about to tell people to
go back into their rooms when the woman
seemed to lose her mind completely for a
second. I guess it was the guy claiming
that everything was under control
because as soon as those words came out
of his mouth, she started pacing towards
him and he didn't see how close she was
until it was too late. He tried to back
away from her, telling her to keep away,
but she managed to grab him by the arm.
I figured that she was about to start
trying to hit him or something, but
instead she kind of dragged his forearm
towards her while she leaned forward and
then sunk her teeth into the guy's
forearm so hard that I actually think
she was drawing blood. The clerk started
screaming for his life. Get the hell off
of me before letting out a loud screech
of pain as the woman bit him. I remember
the gasps and cries coming from around
the motel as she bit the dude. And this
prompted another handful of people to
retreat to their rooms like they didn't
want to be around for whatever happened
next.
I'm not sure how the clerk got her off
of him, but I guess he dragged her off
by the hair or something and shoved her
because the next thing I knew she was
picking herself up off the ground while
the clerk ran back towards the front
desk holding his arm. As the woman kept
yelling about how we were all going to
die, someone walked out from the front
desk with a gun in his hand, saying the
cops have been called, and she was
saying to leave right now before they
showed up and arrested her. Once again,
the lady freaked out and started
screaming at the top of her lungs about
how the cops couldn't help anyone and
they'd only die, too. She then started
marching towards the person I'd later
discovered was the motel's manager, but
he didn't make the same mistake as his
employee.
He backed up, keeping a distance between
them as he raised that gun and told her
to back off. Now, looking back on it,
that's when I started to think that she
wasn't crazy. At least not entirely
crazy, because the sight of that gun
being pointed at her stopped her dead in
her tracks.
She kept on backing up from the manager
with his gun pointed. And then she
turned around and saw a couple of young
parents watching from the second floor
balcony with the girl holding their
baby.
The crazy lady ran for the stairs,
begging them to hand over their baby so
at least it'd be spared from what was
coming. She didn't even make it halfway
up before the dad cut her off. He tried
blocking her at first, but when she
swung for him, he shoved her back so
hard that she tumbled down the last
couple of stairs. It wasn't some bad
fall, so she got right back up again.
But just as she was making her way up
the stairs towards the young father
again, the cops suddenly rolled into the
parking lot and caught her attention.
Their patrol car turned into the parking
lot with a quick whale of its siren as
if to say, "All right, break it up." The
manager with the gun placed it on the
ground and raised his hands into the
air. One of the cops jumped out and
pulled his own gun, but didn't point it
as the manager started explaining the
situation.
That same cop started walking towards
him so he could secure the gun and then
told the guy to head back inside until
the situation was resolved. But the
other cop, he started walking towards
the lady who'd been screaming and the
whole thing started over again.
At first, the lady acted kind of
relieved, like the cops were going to
help her evacuate the motel. But as soon
as that one cop made it clear that
wasn't going to happen, she started
screaming about how they're all going to
die again.
only that time she went from maybe a
five out of 10 on the crazy scale to a
fullon 11. She started saying, "Why is
no one listening to me? Are you effing
stupid or something?" And she's not just
yelling or screaming this time. She's
screeching and wailing so loud her voice
was starting to break up. And some of
the words are kind of getting mushed
together in her rush to get them out.
I think this was one of the most
disturbing aspects of the whole thing.
Seeing the last of this woman's mind
starting to slip away from her right
there in front of me, she started
walking towards the cop in front of her.
He backed off and pulled out this bright
yellow pistol taser and although he
didn't point at it right away, just
seeing him take it out sent her
completely over the edge again. She
rushed forward, I'm guessing, to try and
bite that cop. And he didn't hesitate.
He pointed his taser, fired it, and the
woman's body just sort of locked up
mid-run before she hit the ground face
first.
It was a nasty fall, man. A really nasty
fall. And then when the cops went to put
the cuffs on her, it looked like she was
out cold.
Not long after the ambulance showed up
and after wrapping the woman's face up
with some bandages, the paramedics
hauled her onto a stretcher and then
drove to what I'm guessing was the
hospital with the cops following close
behind.
The motel's manager walked around the
parking lot, basically begging people to
not check out and assuring them
everything was back under control. I
went back into my room, grabbed my keys,
and then went back to the burger joint
for some fries and a milkshake. No one
showed up at the motel and slaughtered
everyone, but by then I figured that
wasn't going to happen. The poor woman
just, I guess, lost her mind somehow and
was convinced something terrible was
about to happen. The thing is, something
bad was about to happen, just only for
her.
[Music]
My name's Jan. I'm a grandma from the
Midwest. And many years ago now, my
husband Bill and I drove our two kids
all the way over to Vineland, New Jersey
to spend some time with family. It made
for a long trip. So long, in fact, that
we decided it was better to spend the
night in a motel rather than arrive at
Bill's parents' place at 2:00 in the
morning.
We picked one of the more expensive
options in the hopes that we'd avoid
anything sketchy or seedy. And when we
arrived, it was every bit as nice as we
had actually hoped.
The staff was friendly. It was clean and
well-managed. And our room was spacious
and comfortable with a pretty nice
bathroom, too. We checked in, hauled our
suitcases from the trunk, and then went
for a very nice dinner at a nearby bar
and grill before returning to the room
at around 9:30.
We watched some TV together. Then once
the kids were just about ready for bed,
my husband went into the bathroom to
brush his teeth while I coaxed our son
and daughter under their covers. Since I
promised our daughter a bedtime story
that night, I was obliged to read one.
But since our slightly older son was
within earshot, he insisted that I tell
a story about cattle driving cowboys
repelling Indian attacks and not one
about princes and princesses finding
romance and getting married.
And yet, while the three of us
negotiated some middle ground, there was
a sudden and unexpected knock at the
door.
It was almost 10 p.m. and the unspoken
arrangement in our house was that if
anyone had knocked that late, it was my
husband that would answer the door. So,
as soon as he heard the knocking, he
spat and wiped his mouth and then made
his way towards the door with a very
irritable look. When our son asked him,
"Who is it?" He told him it was probably
just one of the motel workers, but when
my husband opened the door, it was not a
member of the motel staff.
Standing outside our motel room were
four men. The three younger-l looking
guys wore sweatuits and were very tanned
and muscular, almost like bodybuilders,
while the one older man was frail and
pale, but a much sharper dresser. and
the older man apologized for bothering
us so late and then explained that he
and his nephews would like to come
inside and talk to us about something.
My husband mirrored the man's approach
and very politely explained that it
wasn't a good time. We had a long drive
ahead of us in the morning and we were
about to head to bed. And then this man
countered that he really must insist and
ensured my husband after a short
conversation that he'd be out of our
hair.
My husband remained well-mannered, but
made it clear that we didn't want any
company, especially at such a late hour
with folks that we didn't even know. And
the older man didn't say anything in
response. He just sort of turned and
nodded towards one of his nephews.
One of them then reached around his
back. When he brought his hand back
around, I saw that he was holding a gun.
Then, as the nephew held the black
handgun discreetly against his thigh,
the older man explained that
unfortunately on this occasion, he
wasn't asking, he was telling.
Our son, our eldest kid, was smart
enough to realize that something was
wrong. Maybe from the look on his face
or possibly from my husband's prolonged
silence after the nephew produced the
gun.
In a whisper, my son asked me who was at
the door, and I told him I didn't know,
but that he needed to take his sister
into the bathroom and climb into the tub
together. When he asked why, I gave him
an excuse that I'd used before during a
far less frightening incident.
And since he couldn't see past the open
doorway and he hadn't seen the gun, I
was able to tell him that we needed to
talk about some grown-up stuff with the
nice men outside. It wouldn't be for
long, but he and his sister weren't
allowed to listen to the grown-up talk.
They had to go wait in the bathroom for
a couple of minutes. When he asked if he
could take a pillow, I said yes. And
then he took his little sister by the
hand and led her into the bathroom
before shutting the door. But just as he
did, I looked around to see my husband
backing up with his hands raised while
the men entered the room. After one of
the younger men closed the door behind
him, the older man invited us to take a
seat on the double bed so we could get
comfortable. And then after sitting in
the same chair that I just occupied a
few moments before, he took out a
cigarette which was lit by one of his
nephews.
After taking a drag, he took a look
around the room and then asked us,
"Pretty nice place, huh?"
And in response, my husband's voice
trembled with anger and fright as he
asked, "What
do you want?"
The older man sort of tudded and shook
his head. And then after another long
drag of a cigarette, he told my husband,
"Doesn't have to be like this." And that
he could relax.
He explained that we were going to come
to a compromise, and when we did, he and
his nephews would leave without so much
as raising their voices.
My husband's tone didn't change at all.
He just repeated his question, and then
the old man began to explain what he
wanted.
He said that he and the two men with him
had stayed in the room just the night
before, and that unfortunately he'd
become forgetful in his old age.
He'd left something in that room,
something he knew the motel staff
wouldn't be stupid enough to steal. And
since we were the next family to occupy
it, it must have been us that had found
whatever he'd left behind.
It was then that I finally spoke up,
saying that we hadn't found anything of
value in the room, and that it'd be a
lot easier to help him if we knew what
the missing item was.
While the faces of the younger men
stayed cold as ice, the older man smiled
at me and explained what he'd left
behind should be in the nightstand
closest to me.
As I stood up to go check, the older man
had to stop the nephew with the gun from
pointing it at me. I was shaken but
indignant. So, instead of shrinking back
down onto the bed, I kept course towards
the nightstand. When I opened it, I
found it empty.
I turned, inviting one of the younger
men to come and check it for himself so
he could confirm that it was empty.
No one moved. Then with a chuckle, the
older man explained how he figured
that'd be the case.
He then went on to explain that if the
nightstand was empty, then the
explanation was simple. One of us had
taken his property, and if we wanted to
live, we'd return it.
It was my turn to get angry because I
figured that I'd worked out the guy's
scam. He accused people of stealing his
property and then intimidated them until
they handed over the cash value. But
when I confronted him on that, he
laughed again. He wasn't trying to scam
anyone. All he wanted was his property
back. And my husband jumped in asking
what property. In response, the older
man ordered us to tell our kids to come
out of the bathroom. We refused at
first, but then he said we could ask
them to come out quietly or one of his
nephews could kick the door in and then
drag them both out by the hair.
He said it was our choice. So, we made
one and it was me who tried to sound as
calm as possible as I asked them both to
come out of the bathroom.
There was a pause and everyone went
quiet as the bathroom door slowly
opened. Then our son led our daughter
out into the bedroom by the hand. Both
of them looked nervous, not terrified or
on the verge of tears, just very, very
anxious.
The older man took on the air of a very
friendly uncle, telling the kids not to
be scared and that he and his goons,
I'll call them what they were, I guess,
were friends of the family. That didn't
do much for them, but I guess it was
better than threats. He then asked very
simply and plainly if the kids had found
anything while playing in the room. When
both kids shook their heads, he asked if
they were sure. Both silently nodded,
their eyes very wide and frightened as
they did. They asked them a few more
times, saying things like, "You wouldn't
lie to me now, would you, kids?"
But their answers didn't change. Neither
had found anything.
The older man turned back to us with a
not so friendly look on his face and
then asked if we understood what a
difficult position we were putting him
in. I was terrified, but the
hypocritical question made me seethed
with anger and I snapped at him. Now,
admittedly, this was very unwise, but
when I said it was difficult to
sympathize with him, seeing as he was
putting us in one of the most difficult
situations in our entire lives.
And then the older man stopped smiling
altogether.
And then after stamping out his
cigarette in an ashtray that was on the
coffee table next to him, he leaned
forward in his chair and asked me
something I will never ever forget, not
as long as I live. He asked me,
"Is my nephew going to have to really
hurt you in front of your children?"
The question, or the implication at
least, made my jaw drop and stunned my
husband into silence.
The older man deliberately confused our
silence for incomprehension and slowly
repeated the question. And when he did,
our little girl's eyes began to well up
with tears, and she started begging the
older man, "Please don't shoot them."
The man explained in that same talking
to his kid voice that he didn't want to,
but that mommy and daddy had taken
something from him. Our son stayed
quiet, hugging his sister closer as she
started to cry. The older man turned his
back to us and for the first time, he
looked truly angry as he told us, "Look
what you did. Now you got your daughter
crying."
And then in a voice that set every nerve
on edge, he told us he didn't want to
strangle her to keep her quiet, but he
would if he needed to. And the
suggestion caused my husband's rage to
boil over. He didn't get up, but he just
sort of seethed there with anger as he
told the man, "You touch a single hair
on her goddamn head."
But he didn't get past head before the
goon with the gun suddenly pointed it at
him.
The older man told us to keep calm, that
he didn't want either of us upsetting
our daughter more than she already was.
I looked to her, burying her face in her
brother's pajama shirt. And it was then
that I saw that not only was one of my
son's hands free, but it was fishing for
something in the pocket of his pajama
pants.
Within seconds, everyone was seeing the
same thing. And we watched in silence as
my son pulled something from his pocket.
It was a ring, a gold one, and it seemed
to have what looked like a huge ruby
surrounded by diamonds. And after taking
it from his pocket, he held it up as if
to say, "Here it is."
And my husband and I were far too
relieved to be mad at first. I remember
Bill's head sort of sinking into his
hands, covering his face, almost saying,
"Oh, thank God, and I was still too
stunned to say anything." I just watched
as the older man smiled this big wolfish
smile before laughing like the whole
thing was just some big joke.
And I remember how he turned to his
goons and said something like, "Even
after all these years, I still got it."
He then gestured towards my son and told
him to return the ring. Seeing my son
gently push his sister to one side and
walked towards the older man brought
back this very deep primal motherly
terror that my babies were about to get
hurt. And when I whispered, "Please
don't hurt them." The old man hushed me
in that friendly uncle kind of way and
then held out his hand for my son to
place the ring onto.
After he did, he tried to run back to
his sister, but the older man snatched
him by the wrist and jerked him around
so he was facing him.
My son silently locked up in terror. My
husband managed to say, "Please don't."
But I mirrored my boy. I was frozen to
the spot, praying the man would keep his
word now his ring had been returned. He
told my son he wasn't going to hurt him
and then said it wasn't that he stole
something that was wrong.
it's that he stole it from the wrong
person.
My son stayed silent, staring up at him
with those wide, terrified eyes, and the
older man laughed again. He leaned
forward, gave my son a gentle slap on
the cheek, and said, "He's got balls,
this kid. Reminds me of a younger
version of myself."
After he let go of my son's wrist, the
older man told him to quiet down his
sister, who by then was crying very
loudly.
The older man then got up and said a
bunch of stuff about there being no hard
feelings, how it was all water under the
bridge, and he was sorry for the
intrusion. But for me and my husband, we
were barely listening. We'd each rushed
over to the kids as soon as those goons
stepped out of the way, comforting them
as the men exited the room.
The last thing the man said as he walked
out was, "Pretend we were never here."
Then as quickly as they'd arrived, they
were gone.
And as you can imagine, the kids were
completely distraught, especially my
son. He was still 6 years old at the
time, so still very much in that sticky
fingered, prone to swiping things phase.
But after I sent him into the bathroom,
he didn't realize what was going on when
he came out again. and he didn't want to
speak up about finding the ring in case
it got us into even more trouble.
I obviously made it clear that it was
wrong to have kept the ring and not
mentioned it to anyone. But I also made
it clear that those were very bad men,
very, very bad men. And that they would
have been mean to mommy and daddy no
matter what happened. I didn't want to
upset him anymore than he was. Though it
wasn't until afterwards that I gave him
a much harsher talking to about the
consequences of stealing things. But at
the end of the day, the whole thing was
just a terrible case of bad luck.
After going through something so
frightening in that motel room, the kids
refused to sleep in it. We managed to
talk them into sleeping in the car, at
which point it made sense to just get
back on the road again. My husband and I
were hopped up on adrenaline, too. And
while we didn't mind staying in the room
as such, there was no way either of us
were getting any real sleep if we
stayed.
We made the drive to Bill's parents and
as much as we apologized for waking them
at almost 4:30 in the morning, they
completely understood once we' told them
what had happened. And what happened was
probably the single most terrifying
thing to ever happen to me in my life.
One of the few times in life where I
thought that I was about to watch one of
my own children be harmed. And as a
mother, I wouldn't wish that same
feeling on my worst enemy. It was the
kind of terror that I can barely
describe, and a kind that I'm thankful
that I haven't experienced in the many
years since.
[Music]
Back when I was still in college, I used
to drive home for the holidays. And
since my parents lived all the way
across the country, the journey took a
day and a half and included an overnight
stop in a motel. It was one of those
singlestory L-shaped places that looked
like it had been around since the ' 50s
or something, where the rooms opened
directly onto the parking lot.
The paint was fading. It had two buzzing
neon signs out front that you could hear
at night. And since the place was clean
and cheap and was mostly exactly a
10-hour drive from college, I figured it
was as good a place as any to get some
needed sleep. Now, during my sophomore
year, I pulled in and paid cash for a
room, and then parked right in front of
my door. I dumped my overnight bag
inside, checked the room over to make
sure everything was as it should be, and
then walked back outside to my car. But
as I was locking my door, someone came
up to the room next to mine. It was a
woman, maybe in her mid30s, and since
she was looking down at her phone as she
walked past, she slammed into me as she
did so. I was about to mumble sorry out
of reflex, but she beat me to speaking.
Not to offer an apology of her own, but
to call me a dumb effing b- word who
should watch where she's standing. It
was so insane that I was stunned. And I
didn't let it bother me. And as Zor
walked to my car, I kind of laughed to
myself at how comically terrible some
people can be. I also remember being
super relieved that I was only staying
one night and that I most likely
wouldn't have to interact with her
again.
I had no idea that me and little Miss
RDE were in for a much more significant
encounter.
I drove down to the same fried chicken
place that I stopped by during my
freshman year and was relieved to find
that it was still open. I got myself a
sandwich, some fries, and an iced tea.
And then after back out into the parking
lot, I spotted a man standing by what I
assumed was his car. It looked like he
was watching the people inside through
the big panel windows. The second he saw
me, he called out in a friendly voice,
asking if I could help him. Then when I
asked what was going on, he told me his
story.
So about a week prior, his wife's
parents had died in a freak car
accident. She was absolutely devastated,
but as the days went by, she got worse
and worse until one day when she seemed
to have a complete nervous breakdown and
drove off in her car after saying she
was going to find her dead parents, like
she didn't really believe they were
gone.
given what a fragile state of mind his
wife was in. The man said he was
desperate to find her before she got
herself hurt or into trouble. He then
reached into his pocket and pulled out
his phone to show me a picture of her.
And when he turned the screen around so
I could see, I recognized who it was. It
was little Miss RDE, the lady who barged
into me outside my motel room maybe only
45 minutes prior.
I took a long look at the picture,
staying quiet while I studied it. And
then after looking up to meet the man's
eyes, I told him, "Nope, sorry, haven't
seen her, but if you give me your cell
number, I can call you if I do."
And I tried to sound as genuine as
possible. Took down his cell number
before wishing him luck and then walked
back to our cars as he thanked me for my
kindness.
Now, a lot of you are going to ask, "Why
the hell did you just lie to that nice
man?" searching for his wife. And I get
it. I'd be asking the same thing if it
was me reading this right now.
But right as I was on the cusp of
telling the guy, "Good news, I know
where she is. She's in the hotel room
right next to mine." I heard my friend
Alli's voice in my head. Ally, who'd
been one of my best friends all
throughout high school, had suffered
through a horrible dating experience
back when she was a senior. She ended up
dating an older guy, not by much, just a
couple of years. But while this guy
seemed cool and had a nice car and had
money to spend on her, he turned out to
be an absolute psycho who could not take
no for an answer.
She had to quit her job and find one
someplace else because he kept showing
up trying to either yell at her or beg
her to take him back. But just a few
months into working at the new place, he
showed up there, too. And this time he
didn't want to talk. He tried dragging
her into his car. The cops recalled it
was a whole thing. But then afterwards
when one of her old middle school
friends heard about it, she called her
in tears saying the whole thing was her
fault.
The ex-boyfriend had reached out to her,
told her a bunch of lies about
organizing a surprise party, and then
managed to trick her into spilling the
beans regarding Alli's new place of
work.
It was cruel, devious, and manipulative,
illustrating exactly why she'd had to
break up with him in the first place.
So, when that guy showed me a picture of
his wife, after telling me a bunch of
stuff I had no way to verify, I figured
that I'd better play it safe. It wasn't
just Alli's experience that made me lie
to him, either. There was something
about the way he told his story that
just didn't sit right with me. It
sounded almost rehearsed. And while I'd
obviously helped the guy out if his
story turned out to be true, it's always
better to be safe than sorry.
When I got back to the motel, I went
straight to the door of the room next to
mine and then hesitated a few moments
before finally knocking.
I saw the curtains twitch to the right
of me and then suddenly heard little
Miss RDE yell, "What do you want?"
She didn't sound mad or crazy, just a
little annoyed that I'd knocked on her
door. Sure, but nothing like the nervous
breakdown her husband had described.
When I told her I had something to ask
her, and it was better to ask face to
face, she came to the door and opened it
just a crack before peering out at me
from the dark inside. She then asked me
again in a much lower voice what
business I had knocking at her door.
Now, I didn't quite know what to say at
first, or rather, I didn't quite know
how to say it. So instead, I just asked
her a question in the form of, "Ma'am,
did your parents pass recently?"
Now, she just screwed up her face before
telling me no. Her father had died many
years before, and her mother was still
very much alive.
It feels tasteless to say this given the
circumstances, but that vindication,
that confirmation that I was right to
withhold information, it felt great. I
hadn't been paranoid and my suspicions
had been entirely correct.
And the lady still had a confused look
on her face. So, I quickly told her
about the man that I met in the parking
lot of that chicken place and how he'd
showed me a photograph of her. And the
second I said it, her face just dropped
and turned white. But not just in shock
or realization.
She looked more like I told her the dead
were rising from their graves.
She looked terrified. And after a few
moments of silence, she told me, "Can
you come inside?"
And after she shut the door behind us,
the first thing she did was thank me.
And I witnessed a total shift in this
woman's demeanor. She went from rude and
antisocial to sweet and vulnerable as
she explained that she'd recently
escaped from her abusive husband.
It wasn't just arguments or bad tempers,
but years of steadily escalating
violence.
Then, by the time she got scared he
might beat her to death, she knew it was
time to go. And she slipped away while
he was at work with nothing but a case
of clothes, some cash, and her car.
Hearing about all the abuse she went
through made my skin crawl. And when I
told her I'd lied to him about not
seeing her, she looked so relieved that
I thought she might cry. I also told her
about taking his cell number and joked
about how I could misdirect him with a
false sighting. Now, this was the first
time I actually saw her smile, and she
laughed weakly before warning me not to
get involved.
Then, after thanking me a dozen more
times, I went back to my room and got
ready for bed. I went to sleep feeling
good, like I'd done something truly
special in helping a battered spouse
avoid her abusive husband. But a couple
of hours later, I hear this crash that
had me bolting out of bed, terrified.
And because in that moment, I had major
sleepy brain, I initially thought that
what I'd heard was a car accident on the
highway outside. But I didn't even make
it over to the window before I heard
another bang. And it was coming from the
room next door, the one with little Miss
RDE, or as she should really be called,
the wife on the run. I dialed 911 on
speaker as I threw on some clothes,
telling them what was going on before
heading out the door into the parking
lot. I hadn't seen the husband yet, but
I didn't need to. I knew only one man in
the world could be responsible for the
things she'd screamed and the only one
who would have replied in the way he
did. Once I was dressed, I ran out into
the parking lot just in time to see the
same man from the chicken place parking
lot. He had her by the arm and he was
dragging his escaped wife toward a
pickup truck. He was dragging her, but
she wasn't on her feet. She was
unconscious, her legs scraping against
the gravel, and the sight of her ragd
doll like that made me feel sick. I
started yelling and screaming for him to
let her go, for people to help her. And
before long, a couple of other motel
guests came out of their rooms.
One of them, a big guy in flannel pajama
pants, ran straight toward them and
shouted for him to let go. Another man
from further down the road, joined in.
The husband swung at one of them, but in
the chaos, a third man came at him from
the side and shoved him so hard he let
go of his wife.
After that, he seemed to realize just
how outnumbered he was. And after
running to his truck, he peeled out of
that lot and zoomed off down the
highway.
Someone had already called the police
and another guest was on the phone with
911 for an ambulance and the woman just
laid on the floor still out cold with
her face all swollen on one side.
I started wondering how her husband
could have found her. And when it hit
me, the realization made me feel twice
as nauseous. He must have seen that I
recognized her when he showed me that
photo of her. Or maybe he just smelled
the lie for what it was. Then all he had
to do was follow me back to the motel at
a distance and then he could have
watched from afar as I knocked on that
door of her room.
I made it easy for him. I thought that
I'd been helping her and instead I'd
condemned her to face a nightmare come
to life.
The cops arrived to secure the area and
then not long after the EMT showed up
and wheeled her away on a stretcher. She
was awake by then, but she obviously
wasn't doing too well, and I couldn't
bring myself to try and talk to her
because of how guilty I felt. I was
convinced that I'd led her abusive
husband straight to her. And I'm still
convinced that that's the case, even
after years upon years of trying to
convince myself otherwise.
After the cops and EMTs drove off, the
whole lot went completely quiet again,
and I went back to bed and tried to
sleep, but it didn't come easy. In the
morning, I packed my bag and checked
out, barely making eye contact with the
manager as I did so. I didn't ask about
the woman, and I couldn't bring myself
to. I just sort of got in my car and
drove off.
[Music]
I've been cleaning rooms at the Cedar
Pines Motel for almost 15 years now.
It's not a fancy place, just one of
those long singlestory motel you see off
the highway. The kind with faded green
doors and an ice machine that only seems
to work when it wants to. We get a mix
of guests. Some are just passing
through, some stay for a couple of
weeks, and you learn very quickly not to
ask too many questions. Now, it was a
quiet afternoon in late September, I
remember, and I was coming back from
cleaning room 8 when I saw a kid, maybe
5 or 6 years old, walking back and forth
outside room 14. Now, at first, I
thought he was just playing, maybe
waiting for his parents to come back
from the vending machine. But after a
while, I noticed that he wasn't playing
so much as just sort of pacing up and
down. And when I asked him where his mom
and dad were, he just sort of shrugged
and said he didn't know.
I didn't look scared exactly, more like
empty, like whatever had happened had
knocked all the pep out of him or
something. And after taking the kid's
hand, I went to the office to find Carl,
the clerk on duty. And Carl's the kind
of guy who's been doing this job forever
and who doesn't get rattled very easily.
I told him about that kid, and he
checked the log book. Now, sure enough,
room 14 had been rented out the night
before to a couple with a child who
actually paid cash. Now, the three of us
had then tried knocking on the door of
room 14. Carl knocked but got no answer.
He knocked again, louder this time, but
still nothing. He gave me a nervous
look, then went to get his master key.
And the smell hit me before the door was
even halfway open. Not the strong
rotting smell you get when something's
been dead a while, more like that
metallic tang of fresh blood.
The room was a wreck. The bed sheets
were tangled and stained. Drawers had
been pulled out and clothes thrown all
over. And one of the lamps were knocked
over and cracked. I saw flexcks of blood
on one of the walls. Little spots like
someone had flicked a paintbrush dipped
in red.
There was more on the bed sheets, so
much that we couldn't write it off as a
nose bleed or something equally
harmless.
Carl swore under his breath, and I
stepped back quickly so the kid couldn't
see. I put my hands on his shoulders and
turned him toward the parking lot,
telling him that we were going to wait
outside. I tried to keep him talking,
asking about school and if he liked
cartoons. He barely answered me. It was
like he knew what had happened and he
couldn't process it yet. The police
showed up maybe 20 minutes later. The
first two deputies went in to search the
room and then not long after they were
joined by another officer in plain
clothes who I'm guessing was a
detective. And that's when I knew that
it must have been something serious,
very serious.
They kept asking us the same questions
over and over and stuff like how we
found the kid, what time it was, if we'd
seen anyone come or go, and I told them
everything we knew, which wasn't much.
Carl told them about the cash payment
and that there was no car listed on the
registry.
Now, once I was done with the cops, I
kept trying to keep the kid distracted.
I found some old crayons in the office
desk and a few sheets of paper, and he
sat at one of the lobby tables and drew
pictures while the cops went in and out
of the room.
At one point, I remember looking over to
see what he was drawing and saw it
looked like a bed with red scribbles all
over it. I don't know if it was my
imagination kind of like filling in the
gaps, but I felt horrible knowing that
he might have seen something happen to
his parents.
A few guests came by to see what the
commotion was, but the cops kept moving
along until one lady, the lady in room
six, said that she thought that she'd
heard a loud bang in the middle of the
night. It had been loud enough to wake
her, but since it only happened the one
time, she'd figured it was just someone
dropping a heavy suitcase or maybe her
hearing something.
Only then did she realize that she might
well have heard something terrible
actually happening.
It was maybe 2 hours before a woman from
child protective services stopped by to
see about the kid. She was polite but
firm with us, but super sweet and
friendly with the kid as she told him
that he needed to go with her to talk to
some nice folks over at her office. He
didn't ask questions. He just took her
hand and followed her to her car. I
don't know why, but I knew right then
that whatever happened in that room, he
wasn't going to see his parents ever
again.
The police never told us much after
that. They took the sheets and the lamp
and some clothing and a few other things
from the room and it was sealed for a
while. And when I finally got it back to
clean, it was completely stripped bare.
The mattress was gone. The curtains were
gone. Almost everything had been taken
away to be examined as evidence.
They left a faint outline on the carpet
where the bed used to be. And even
though I scrubbed for hours, I could
still see a shadow of that reddish brown
stain on the wall.
Every now and then I wonder about that
kid, if he remembers that day, if he
ever found out what happened.
I've cleaned plenty of bad messes in my
time. Rooms full of garbage, rooms where
people overdosed. Heck, even rooms where
people have died. But there was
something different about room 14.
Something about the quiet way that boy
paced outside like he already knew that
he was alone. I still work here and not
much has changed. The paint on the doors
is even more faded, and the ice machine
still doesn't work half the time. But I
can't walk past that room without
glancing at the door. I half expect to
see a small figure waiting there, pacing
back and forth, not knowing or maybe
knowing too well why mom and dad are
gone forever.
[Music]
For under five years, I used to work the
front desk at a little motel in the
middle of nowhere. It was a quiet little
place, a little rundown, but Rhonda, our
cleaner, kept the place sparkling. We
used to get hunters in the fall,
fishermanmen in the summer, and the
occasional trucker rolling in during the
midnight hours. As much as it was mostly
a boring job, I came to appreciate the
safety and stability. But every so
often, we got some real bad men rolling
into that old parking lot of ours. and
one of them came in the spring of 1996.
It was late on a Sunday evening when his
car turned into the lot. It had been a
quiet day, maybe four or five check-ins,
and I was halfway through a bad cup of
coffee when he walked up to the front
desk. He looked normal, a regular
middle-aged white guy with a big coat
and a red woolly hat. He was friendly,
too, and greeted me warmly before saying
he wanted a room for the night.
I checked which rooms were free, told
him the rate, and then after he slid a
credit card across the counter, I ran it
through, but the machine declined it,
and he says, "Huh, that's weird. It's
been working fine all day." And then
asked me to try the card again. I did,
not once, but twice, and both times the
card was declined. The guy seemed really
embarrassed. He pulled out his wallet as
he apologized a bunch, and I told him it
was fine as he handed me the cash.
Those things happen from time to time
and he didn't have anything to apologize
for. He gave me this big smile as he
thanked me and then after I handed him
his key and directed him to room 6, he
thanked me and headed off down the hall.
I was working the night shift that
night, 9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. So, aside
from watching the place and making sure
the vending machine was all stocked up,
all I did was watch movies on the little
box TV that we kept in the office.
I could keep an eye on the parking lot,
so if guests rolled in, I could see them
coming. But that night, when I saw
headlights coming into the lot, I looked
up to see not just one, but two cruisers
from the Mason County Sheriff's
Department.
Two deputies stayed outside, watching
all the rooms. But one deputy came
inside to ask me about a declined credit
card a few hours earlier. He knew it had
been declined three times, and he needed
to speak to the person using it. When I
mentioned the guy in the red hat, the
deputy asked which room he was in, and I
led him to the room. The door was
locked, but I gave them the spare key.
They opened it slowly and their guns
were drawn, but the room was empty. The
man in the red hat was gone. One of the
deputies said that he must have been
watching the parking lot, and when he
saw the patrol cars drive by, he slipped
out through his room's rear window.
He left behind nothing but a half empty
bottle of water on the nightstand, a
pair of muddy boots by the bed, and the
faint smell of something that I couldn't
place right away, almost like hair dye
or some type of chemical.
The deputies asked me to stay out of the
room until another group of cops had
searched the place and taken away
evidence. But then a few hours later, I
was taking out some trash when I
overheard two of the deputies talking to
each other. and what I heard made my
skin crawl.
They said the forensics guy had found a
bag in that room and that inside were a
whole bunch of different wigs.
The forensics team said that they'd need
to test it to confirm it, but that at
first glance it looked and felt a hell
of a lot like real human hair.
But it wasn't that which got me. It was
hearing one of the deputies say how one
of the wigs matched the hair of a
missing woman who disappeared only a
week or so earlier.
And I decided that I didn't want to hear
anymore.
The deputies and forensics folks stayed
for a couple of hours. They took the
wigs and the boots and even the water
bottle. I heard one of them say that
they were going to check it for DNA. And
when they left, the motel went quiet
again. But it felt like anything but
peaceful.
Just hours before, someone who may or
may not have been a psychopath, trophy
seeeking murderer had been standing 3 ft
from me. I'd handed him a key, smiled at
him, and I even told him to have a good
night. And all the while, maybe in that
bag that he was carrying, there was some
missing woman's hair.
That thought will stay with me as long
as I live. And you should have seen how
calm he was, too. You'd never have
suspected in a million years that he was
capable of something like that. No
visible nerves, no rush, just sort of
still like he had all the time in the
world. And I didn't hear much beyond
that. The sheriff came back a few days
later to ask me some more questions, but
they hadn't caught the guy, and he
couldn't say if the hair really did
belong to that missing woman, but I
could tell by the way he talked that it
was probably bad. After that, every time
someone walked through that door to
check in, I watch them a little
differently. I still think about that
man a whole lot, actually, because I
know people like him don't just exist in
movies or the news now. They walk
through the front door with a big old
smile on their face, pretending they're
someone they're not, and you've got no
way of knowing who they really are until
it's too late.
Hey friends, thanks for listening. Click
that notification bell to be alerted of
all future narrations. I release new
videos every Monday and Thursday at 9:00
p.m. Eastern time. And there are super
fun live streams on Sundays and
Wednesday nights. If you got a story, be
sure to submit them over at my email
let's readadsubmissions@gmail.com
and maybe even hear your story featured
on the next video. And if you want to
support me even more, grab early access
to all future narrations and bonus
content over on Patreon, or click that
big join button to hear about the extra
perks for members of the channel. And
check out the Let's Read podcast where
you can hear all of these stories and
big compilations located anywhere you
listen to podcasts. And I also have a
true crime channel called Saturn Soul.
Go check it out. All links in the
description below. Thanks so much,
friends. And remember, you shall squeak
when squen